README.md, before:

# VideoText

Professional video utilities platform: transcribe video to text, generate and translate subtitles, fix timing, burn captions, compress video, and batch process. React + Vite frontend, Express backend, Bull queue, Stripe billing.

**We don’t store your data.** User uploads and generated outputs are processed and then deleted; we don’t keep copies. This is a core product commitment and is highlighted in the app (Privacy, FAQ, Pricing, and Home).

---

## Table of contents

1. [Features & tools (trees and branches)](#1-features--tools-trees-and-branches)
2. [Prerequisites & setup](#2-prerequisites--setup)
3. [Environment variables](#3-environment-variables)
4. [API contract (upload)](#4-api-contract-upload)
5. [Billing & usage](#5-billing--usage)
6. [Stripe (go live)](#6-stripe-go-live)
7. [Redis](#7-redis)
8. [Deployment (Hetzner + Caddy)](#8-deployment-hetzner--caddy)
9. [SEO & production URLs](#9-seo--production-urls)
10. [Project structure](#10-project-structure)

---

## 1. Features & tools (trees and branches)

### Core tools (main routes)

| Tool | Route | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| **Video → Transcript** | `/video-to-transcript` | Extract spoken text from video (upload or URL). Optional summary, chapters, speaker diarization, glossary. |
| **Video → Subtitles** | `/video-to-subtitles` | Generate SRT/VTT from video. Multi-language (Basic+: 2, Pro: 5, Agency: 10). |
| **Translate Subtitles** | `/translate-subtitles` | Translate SRT/VTT to Arabic, Hindi, etc. Upload or paste. |
| **Fix Subtitles** | `/fix-subtitles` | Auto-correct timing, grammar, line breaks, remove fillers. |
| **Burn Subtitles** | `/burn-subtitles` | Hardcode subtitles into video (dual upload: video + SRT/VTT). |
| **Compress Video** | `/compress-video` | Reduce file size (web / mobile / archive profiles). |
| **Batch Processing** | `/batch-process` | Process multiple videos (Pro/Agency). |

### Video → Transcript: tree and branches

After a transcript is generated, the **Transcript** view is the main trunk. The following **branches** are derived client-side from the same transcript (no re-fetch):

| Branch | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Transcript** | Full text, search, edit segments, copy, export SRT/VTT. **Translate** button: show transcript in English, Hindi, Telugu, Spanish, Chinese, or Russian (cached per language). |
| **Speakers** | Paragraphs grouped by speaker (when structure allows). |
| **Summary** | AI summary, bullets, action items. |
| **Chapters** | Section headings with timestamps. |
| **Highlights** | Definitions, conclusions, quotes, important statements. |
| **Keywords** | Repeated terms linking to sections. |
| **Clean** | Filler words removed, casing normalized; original always in Transcript. |
| **Exports** | Download as TXT, JSON, CSV, Markdown, Notion (paid for full export). |

### Backend tool types (must match exactly)

Used in upload and worker: `video-to-transcript`, `video-to-subtitles`, `translate-subtitles`, `fix-subtitles`, `burn-subtitles`, `compress-video`, `convert-subtitles`. Multi-language and batch use the same pipeline with options.

### SEO entry points (same tools, alternate URLs)

No duplicate logic; these routes render the same tool component with different meta/FAQ:

- `/video-to-text`, `/mp4-to-text`, `/mp4-to-srt`, `/subtitle-generator`, `/srt-translator`, `/meeting-transcript`, `/speaker-diarization`, `/video-summary-generator`, `/video-chapters-generator`, `/keyword-indexed-transcript`
- `/srt-to-vtt`, `/subtitle-converter`, `/subtitle-timing-fixer`, `/subtitle-validation`, `/subtitle-translator`, `/multilingual-subtitles`, `/subtitle-language-checker`, `/subtitle-grammar-fixer`, `/subtitle-line-break-fixer`
- `/hardcoded-captions`, `/video-with-subtitles`, `/video-compressor`, `/reduce-video-size`, `/batch-video-processing`, `/bulk-subtitle-export`, `/bulk-transcript-export`

### App pages: Privacy, FAQ, Terms

- **`/privacy`** — Privacy Policy. Prominently states that we do not store user data; files are processed and deleted.
- **`/faq`** — App-wide FAQ: privacy and data, billing, tools, transcript translation. Includes a “We don’t store your data” trust line.
- **`/terms`** — Terms of Service; references Privacy for data handling.

---

## 2. Prerequisites & setup

- **Node.js** v18+
- **Docker Desktop** (for Redis), or install Redis locally
- **FFmpeg** (used by worker for video/subtitle processing)

### Install and run

```bash
# Client
cd client && npm install && npm run dev

# Server (separate terminal)
cd server && npm install && npm run dev
```

- Client: `http://localhost:3000`
- Server: `http://localhost:3001`

### Redis

Start Redis so the job queue works:

- **Docker:** from project root run `docker compose up -d` (Redis + optional API/worker).
- **Local:** e.g. `brew install redis && brew services start redis` (macOS), or install Redis on Windows/Linux and ensure it listens on `localhost:6379`.

See [§7 Redis](#7-redis) for URL and migration options.

---

## 3. Environment variables

### Client (Vite)

In `client/.env` or Vercel env:

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|----------|----------|---------|--------|
| `VITE_API_URL` | Yes (production) | `https://api.videotext.io` | **Origin only**; do not include `/api`. |
| `VITE_SITE_URL` | No | `https://www.videotext.io` | Canonical/OG/sitemap base. |

### Server

In `server/.env` (or Docker env). Use `server/.env.example` as template.

| Area | Variables |
|------|-----------|
| **API** | `PORT` (default 3001), `NODE_ENV`, `CORS_ORIGINS` (comma-separated) |
| **Stripe** | `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`, `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, `STRIPE_PRICE_BASIC`, `STRIPE_PRICE_PRO`, `STRIPE_PRICE_AGENCY`, `STRIPE_PRICE_OVERAGE`; optional `STRIPE_PRICE_*_ANNUAL` |
| **Redirects** | `BASE_URL` (frontend URL for Stripe success/cancel) |
| **Redis** | `REDIS_URL` (e.g. `redis://redis:6379` or Upstash `rediss://...`) |
| **Processing** | `TEMP_FILE_PATH` (default `/tmp`), `DISABLE_WORKER` (set on API-only container if worker runs elsewhere) |
| **Transcription / translation** | `OPENAI_API_KEY` |
| **Auth** | `JWT_SECRET` |

---

## 4. API contract (upload)

- **Single-file:** `POST /api/upload` — `multipart/form-data`, field **`file`**, **`toolType`** (required). Optional: `url` (video-to-transcript/subtitles), `format`, `language`, `targetLanguage`, `compressionLevel`, `trimmedStart`, `trimmedEnd`, `additionalLanguages` (JSON string), etc.
- **Dual-file (burn):** `POST /api/upload/dual` — fields **`video`**, **`subtitles`**, **`toolType`** = `burn-subtitles`.
- **Chunked upload:** `POST /api/upload/chunk` (binary); metadata includes `toolType`, `filename`, `totalChunks`.

Valid `toolType` values: `video-to-transcript`, `video-to-subtitles`, `translate-subtitles`, `fix-subtitles`, `burn-subtitles`, `compress-video`, `convert-subtitles`. Client uses `BACKEND_TOOL_TYPES` in `client/src/lib/api.ts`; do not invent other names.

**Translate transcript (in-app):** `POST /api/translate-transcript` — JSON body `{ "text": "...", "targetLanguage": "English" | "Hindi" | "Telugu" | "Spanish" | "Chinese" | "Russian" }`, returns `{ "translatedText": "..." }`.

---

## 5. Billing & usage

- **Plans:** free, basic, pro, agency. Stored in user model; set by Stripe webhooks (checkout, invoice, subscription deleted) or by headers `x-user-id` / `x-plan` when no JWT.
- **Limits** (see `server/src/utils/limits.ts`): minutes/month, max video duration, max file size, max subtitle languages, batch enabled (Pro/Agency), batch max videos and max minutes. Translation minutes cap for Pro/Agency.
- **Usage:** Recorded in the **worker** when a job **completes** (totalMinutes, translatedMinutes, etc.). Reset on invoice period (paid) or calendar month (free). Overage allowed only for users with `stripeCustomerId`.
- **Client:** Sends `x-user-id` and `x-plan`; after checkout, client stores `userId` and `plan` so usage and “Manage subscription” reflect the paid user.

---

## 6. Stripe (go live)

1. **Products & prices** in Dashboard: Basic/Pro/Agency (monthly; optional annual). One-time overage price. Copy Price IDs into env.
2. **API keys:** Use **Secret key** (test or live) in `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`.
3. **Webhook:** Add endpoint `https://YOUR_API_DOMAIN/api/stripe/webhook`; events: `checkout.session.completed`, `invoice.payment_succeeded`, `customer.subscription.deleted`. Set **Signing secret** in `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`.
4. **Success/cancel:** Use `BASE_URL` or client `frontendOrigin` so redirects go to your frontend.
5. **Customer portal:** Configure in Stripe (Settings → Billing → Customer portal) so “Manage subscription” works.

---

## 7. Redis

Used for the **Bull job queue** only (not auth or Stripe). Switch by changing `REDIS_URL` and restarting API and worker.

- **Self-hosted (Docker):** `docker-compose.yml` includes Redis; `REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379`.
- **Self-hosted (host):** Install Redis, set `REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379` (or host IP for containers).
- **Upstash:** Set `REDIS_URL=rediss://...` from Upstash console. If using Docker Compose, remove `REDIS_URL` from compose `environment` so `.env` is used.

Changing Redis invalidates existing job IDs (queue state is not migrated).

---

## 8. Deployment (Hetzner + Caddy)

### Backend on Hetzner (single VM)

1. **Docker:** Install Docker and Compose on Ubuntu 22.04 (see Docker docs).
2. **Project & env:** Copy repo and create `.env` from `.env.example` (Redis, Stripe, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, `JWT_SECRET`, `BASE_URL`, etc.).
3. **Start:** From project root: `docker compose up --build -d`. API on port 3001; Redis and worker run in the same stack.
4. **Restart:** `docker compose up -d --build api worker`.

### Caddy (HTTPS for API)

1. DNS: point `api.yourdomain.com` to the server.
2. Install Caddy, then use a Caddyfile:
   ```text
   api.videotext.io {
       reverse_proxy localhost:3001
   }
   ```
   If the API is mapped to 3002 on the host, use `reverse_proxy localhost:3002`.
3. Restart Caddy. Test: `curl -sS https://api.videotext.io/health` → `{"status":"ok"}`.

### Frontend (Vercel)

- Set **Root directory** to `client`, build command `npm run build`, output `dist`.
- Set **VITE_API_URL** to your API origin (e.g. `https://api.videotext.io`) — **no** `/api` suffix.

**Mixed content:** If the site is HTTPS, `VITE_API_URL` must be HTTPS (e.g. `https://api.videotext.io`). Do not use `http://IP:port` in production.

---

## 9. SEO & production URLs

- **Per-route meta:** Each route has `<title>` and `<meta name="description">` via `react-helmet-async` and `client/src/lib/seoMeta.ts`.
- **Canonical & sitemap:** Set `VITE_SITE_URL` for canonicals and OG. Update `client/public/sitemap.xml` and `robots.txt` if the domain changes.
- **Structured data:** Homepage includes JSON-LD (Organization, WebApplication). Add `client/public/og-image.png` (e.g. 1200×630) for social sharing.

---

## 10. Project structure

```text
├── client/                 # React + Vite
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # UI (Navigation, FileUploadZone, SuccessState, etc.)
│   │   ├── lib/            # api, apiBase, billing, jobPolling, seoMeta, theme, usage, …
│   │   ├── pages/          # Home, VideoToTranscript, VideoToSubtitles, BatchProcess, …
│   │   └── pages/seo/      # SEO entry-point wrappers (same tools, different meta)
│   ├── public/
│   └── index.html
├── server/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── routes/         # upload, jobs, download, usage, batch, billing, auth, stripeWebhook, translateTranscript
│   │   ├── services/      # transcription, translation, subtitles, ffmpeg, stripe, …
│   │   ├── workers/       # videoProcessor (Bull)
│   │   ├── models/        # User, Job, UsageLog, …
│   │   └── utils/         # auth, limits, metering, srtParser, redis, …
│   └── package.json
├── deploy/
│   ├── Caddyfile           # Reverse proxy for API
│   └── (no separate README; see §8 above)
├── docker-compose.yml      # Redis, api, worker
├── Dockerfile
└── README.md               # This file
```

---

## Quick reference

| Task | Command / action |
|------|-------------------|
| Run client | `cd client && npm run dev` |
| Run server | `cd server && npm run dev` |
| Redis (Docker) | `docker compose up -d` |
| Deploy backend | `docker compose up --build -d` |
| Restart API + worker | `docker compose up -d --build api worker` |
| Job status | `GET /api/job/:jobId` |
| Health | `GET /health` → `{"status":"ok"}` |

All product behavior, trees, branches, and features are described in [§1 Features & tools](#1-features--tools-trees-and-branches). For env details use `server/.env.example` and the tables in [§3 Environment variables](#3-environment-variables).

Commit message:

feat: transcript translation (6 langs), privacy/FAQ/terms, parallel transcription, GPU FFmpeg, option-aware caching, single README

README.md, after:

# VideoText

Professional video utilities platform: transcribe video to text, generate and translate subtitles, fix timing, burn captions, compress video, and batch process. React + Vite frontend, Express backend, Bull queue, Stripe billing.

**We don’t store your data.** User uploads and generated outputs are processed and then deleted; we don’t keep copies. This is a core product commitment and is highlighted in the app (Privacy, FAQ, Pricing, and Home).

---

## Table of contents

1. [Features & tools (trees and branches)](#1-features--tools-trees-and-branches)
2. [Prerequisites & setup](#2-prerequisites--setup)
3. [Environment variables](#3-environment-variables)
4. [API contract (upload)](#4-api-contract-upload)
5. [Billing & usage](#5-billing--usage)
6. [Stripe (go live)](#6-stripe-go-live)
7. [Redis](#7-redis)
8. [Deployment (Hetzner + Caddy)](#8-deployment-hetzner--caddy)
9. [SEO & production URLs](#9-seo--production-urls)
10. [Project structure](#10-project-structure)

---

## 1. Features & tools (trees and branches)

### Core tools (main routes)

| Tool | Route | Description |
|------|--------|-------------|
| **Video → Transcript** | `/video-to-transcript` | Extract spoken text from video (upload or URL). Optional summary, chapters, speaker diarization, glossary. |
| **Video → Subtitles** | `/video-to-subtitles` | Generate SRT/VTT from video. Multi-language (Basic+: 2, Pro: 5, Agency: 10). |
| **Translate Subtitles** | `/translate-subtitles` | Translate SRT/VTT to Arabic, Hindi, etc. Upload or paste. |
| **Fix Subtitles** | `/fix-subtitles` | Auto-correct timing, grammar, line breaks, remove fillers. |
| **Burn Subtitles** | `/burn-subtitles` | Hardcode subtitles into video (dual upload: video + SRT/VTT). |
| **Compress Video** | `/compress-video` | Reduce file size (web / mobile / archive profiles). |
| **Batch Processing** | `/batch-process` | Process multiple videos (Pro/Agency). |

### Video → Transcript: tree and branches

After a transcript is generated, the **Transcript** view is the main trunk. The following **branches** are derived client-side from the same transcript (no re-fetch):

| Branch | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Transcript** | Full text, search, edit segments, copy, export SRT/VTT. **Translate** button: show transcript in English, Hindi, Telugu, Spanish, Chinese, or Russian (cached per language). |
| **Speakers** | Paragraphs grouped by speaker (when structure allows). |
| **Summary** | AI summary, bullets, action items. |
| **Chapters** | Section headings with timestamps. |
| **Highlights** | Definitions, conclusions, quotes, important statements. |
| **Keywords** | Repeated terms linking to sections. |
| **Clean** | Filler words removed, casing normalized; original always in Transcript. |
| **Exports** | Download as TXT, JSON, CSV, Markdown, Notion (paid for full export). |

### Backend tool types (must match exactly)

Used in upload and worker: `video-to-transcript`, `video-to-subtitles`, `translate-subtitles`, `fix-subtitles`, `burn-subtitles`, `compress-video`, `convert-subtitles`. Multi-language and batch use the same pipeline with options.

### SEO entry points (same tools, alternate URLs)

No duplicate logic; these routes render the same tool component with different meta/FAQ:

- `/video-to-text`, `/mp4-to-text`, `/mp4-to-srt`, `/subtitle-generator`, `/srt-translator`, `/meeting-transcript`, `/speaker-diarization`, `/video-summary-generator`, `/video-chapters-generator`, `/keyword-indexed-transcript`
- `/srt-to-vtt`, `/subtitle-converter`, `/subtitle-timing-fixer`, `/subtitle-validation`, `/subtitle-translator`, `/multilingual-subtitles`, `/subtitle-language-checker`, `/subtitle-grammar-fixer`, `/subtitle-line-break-fixer`
- `/hardcoded-captions`, `/video-with-subtitles`, `/video-compressor`, `/reduce-video-size`, `/batch-video-processing`, `/bulk-subtitle-export`, `/bulk-transcript-export`

### App pages: Privacy, FAQ, Terms

- **`/privacy`** — Privacy Policy. Prominently states that we do not store user data; files are processed and deleted.
- **`/faq`** — App-wide FAQ: privacy and data, billing, tools, transcript translation. Includes a “We don’t store your data” trust line.
- **`/terms`** — Terms of Service; references Privacy for data handling.

---

## 2. Prerequisites & setup

- **Node.js** v18+
- **Docker Desktop** (for Redis), or install Redis locally
- **FFmpeg** (used by worker for video/subtitle processing)

### Install and run

```bash
# Client
cd client && npm install && npm run dev

# Server (separate terminal)
cd server && npm install && npm run dev
```

- Client: `http://localhost:3000`
- Server: `http://localhost:3001`

### Redis

Start Redis so the job queue works:

- **Docker:** from project root run `docker compose up -d` (Redis + optional API/worker).
- **Local:** e.g. `brew install redis && brew services start redis` (macOS), or install Redis on Windows/Linux and ensure it listens on `localhost:6379`.

See [§7 Redis](#7-redis) for URL and migration options.

---

## 3. Environment variables

### Client (Vite)

In `client/.env` or Vercel env:

| Variable | Required | Example | Notes |
|----------|----------|---------|--------|
| `VITE_API_URL` | Yes (production) | `https://api.videotext.io` | **Origin only**; do not include `/api`. |
| `VITE_SITE_URL` | No | `https://www.videotext.io` | Canonical/OG/sitemap base. |

### Server

In `server/.env` (or Docker env). Use `server/.env.example` as template.

| Area | Variables |
|------|-----------|
| **API** | `PORT` (default 3001), `NODE_ENV`, `CORS_ORIGINS` (comma-separated) |
| **Stripe** | `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`, `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, `STRIPE_PRICE_BASIC`, `STRIPE_PRICE_PRO`, `STRIPE_PRICE_AGENCY`, `STRIPE_PRICE_OVERAGE`; optional `STRIPE_PRICE_*_ANNUAL` |
| **Redirects** | `BASE_URL` (frontend URL for Stripe success/cancel) |
| **Redis** | `REDIS_URL` (e.g. `redis://redis:6379` or Upstash `rediss://...`) |
| **Processing** | `TEMP_FILE_PATH` (default `/tmp`), `DISABLE_WORKER` (set on API-only container if worker runs elsewhere) |
| **Transcription / translation** | `OPENAI_API_KEY` |
| **Auth** | `JWT_SECRET` |
| **Performance (optional)** | `FFMPEG_USE_GPU` = `true` to use GPU decode/encode (e.g. CUDA/NVENC) when available. `FFMPEG_THREADS` (default `4`) for CPU encode. |
| **Caching (optional)** | `CACHE_TTL_DAYS` = number of days to cache results for repeat processing (same user + same file + same tool + same options). Default `7`. Set to `0` to disable. |

**Performance behaviour (no config required):**

- **Parallel transcription:** Videos ≥ 2.5 minutes are split into ~3‑minute chunks; chunks are transcribed in parallel via Whisper, then merged. Same API and result shape; faster wall‑clock for long files.
- **Parallel pipeline:** Summary and chapters run in parallel after transcript; multi‑language subtitle translations run in parallel. Worker logic unchanged.
- **Caching:** For video-to-transcript and video-to-subtitles, if the same user re-processes the same file with the same options (including trim, language, format) within the TTL, the job returns the cached result immediately (no re-run). Cache key includes file hash, tool type, and options. Set `CACHE_TTL_DAYS=0` to disable.

---

## 4. API contract (upload)

- **Single-file:** `POST /api/upload` — `multipart/form-data`, field **`file`**, **`toolType`** (required). Optional: `url` (video-to-transcript/subtitles), `format`, `language`, `targetLanguage`, `compressionLevel`, `trimmedStart`, `trimmedEnd`, `additionalLanguages` (JSON string), etc.
- **Dual-file (burn):** `POST /api/upload/dual` — fields **`video`**, **`subtitles`**, **`toolType`** = `burn-subtitles`.
- **Chunked upload:** `POST /api/upload/chunk` (binary); metadata includes `toolType`, `filename`, `totalChunks`.

Valid `toolType` values: `video-to-transcript`, `video-to-subtitles`, `translate-subtitles`, `fix-subtitles`, `burn-subtitles`, `compress-video`, `convert-subtitles`. Client uses `BACKEND_TOOL_TYPES` in `client/src/lib/api.ts`; do not invent other names.

**Translate transcript (in-app):** `POST /api/translate-transcript` — JSON body `{ "text": "...", "targetLanguage": "English" | "Hindi" | "Telugu" | "Spanish" | "Chinese" | "Russian" }`, returns `{ "translatedText": "..." }`.

---

## 5. Billing & usage

- **Plans:** free, basic, pro, agency. Stored in user model; set by Stripe webhooks (checkout, invoice, subscription deleted) or by headers `x-user-id` / `x-plan` when no JWT.
- **Limits** (see `server/src/utils/limits.ts`): minutes/month, max video duration, max file size, max subtitle languages, batch enabled (Pro/Agency), batch max videos and max minutes. Translation minutes cap for Pro/Agency.
- **Usage:** Recorded in the **worker** when a job **completes** (totalMinutes, translatedMinutes, etc.). Reset on invoice period (paid) or calendar month (free). Overage allowed only for users with `stripeCustomerId`.
- **Client:** Sends `x-user-id` and `x-plan`; after checkout, client stores `userId` and `plan` so usage and “Manage subscription” reflect the paid user.

---

## 6. Stripe (go live)

1. **Products & prices** in Dashboard: Basic/Pro/Agency (monthly; optional annual). One-time overage price. Copy Price IDs into env.
2. **API keys:** Use **Secret key** (test or live) in `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`.
3. **Webhook:** Add endpoint `https://YOUR_API_DOMAIN/api/stripe/webhook`; events: `checkout.session.completed`, `invoice.payment_succeeded`, `customer.subscription.deleted`. Set **Signing secret** in `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`.
4. **Success/cancel:** Use `BASE_URL` or client `frontendOrigin` so redirects go to your frontend.
5. **Customer portal:** Configure in Stripe (Settings → Billing → Customer portal) so “Manage subscription” works.

---

## 7. Redis

Used for the **Bull job queue** only (not auth or Stripe). Switch by changing `REDIS_URL` and restarting API and worker.

- **Self-hosted (Docker):** `docker-compose.yml` includes Redis; `REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379`.
- **Self-hosted (host):** Install Redis, set `REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379` (or host IP for containers).
- **Upstash:** Set `REDIS_URL=rediss://...` from Upstash console. If using Docker Compose, remove `REDIS_URL` from compose `environment` so `.env` is used.

Changing Redis invalidates existing job IDs (queue state is not migrated).

---

## 8. Deployment (Hetzner + Caddy)

### Backend on Hetzner (single VM)

1. **Docker:** Install Docker and Compose on Ubuntu 22.04 (see Docker docs).
2. **Project & env:** Copy repo and create `.env` from `.env.example` (Redis, Stripe, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, `JWT_SECRET`, `BASE_URL`, etc.).
3. **Start:** From project root: `docker compose up --build -d`. API on port 3001; Redis and worker run in the same stack.
4. **Restart:** `docker compose up -d --build api worker`.

### Caddy (HTTPS for API)

1. DNS: point `api.yourdomain.com` to the server.
2. Install Caddy, then use a Caddyfile:
   ```text
   api.videotext.io {
       reverse_proxy localhost:3001
   }
   ```
   If the API is mapped to 3002 on the host, use `reverse_proxy localhost:3002`.
3. Restart Caddy. Test: `curl -sS https://api.videotext.io/health` → `{"status":"ok"}`.

### Frontend (Vercel)

- Set **Root directory** to `client`, build command `npm run build`, output `dist`.
- Set **VITE_API_URL** to your API origin (e.g. `https://api.videotext.io`) — **no** `/api` suffix.

**Mixed content:** If the site is HTTPS, `VITE_API_URL` must be HTTPS (e.g. `https://api.videotext.io`). Do not use `http://IP:port` in production.

---

## 9. SEO & production URLs

- **Per-route meta:** Each route has `<title>` and `<meta name="description">` via `react-helmet-async` and `client/src/lib/seoMeta.ts`.
- **Canonical & sitemap:** Set `VITE_SITE_URL` for canonicals and OG. Update `client/public/sitemap.xml` and `robots.txt` if the domain changes.
- **Structured data:** Homepage includes JSON-LD (Organization, WebApplication). Add `client/public/og-image.png` (e.g. 1200×630) for social sharing.

---

## 10. Project structure

```text
├── client/                 # React + Vite
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # UI (Navigation, FileUploadZone, SuccessState, etc.)
│   │   ├── lib/            # api, apiBase, billing, jobPolling, seoMeta, theme, usage, …
│   │   ├── pages/          # Home, VideoToTranscript, VideoToSubtitles, BatchProcess, …
│   │   └── pages/seo/      # SEO entry-point wrappers (same tools, different meta)
│   ├── public/
│   └── index.html
├── server/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── routes/         # upload, jobs, download, usage, batch, billing, auth, stripeWebhook, translateTranscript
│   │   ├── services/      # transcription, translation, subtitles, ffmpeg, stripe, …
│   │   ├── workers/       # videoProcessor (Bull)
│   │   ├── models/        # User, Job, UsageLog, …
│   │   └── utils/         # auth, limits, metering, srtParser, redis, …
│   └── package.json
├── deploy/
│   ├── Caddyfile           # Reverse proxy for API
│   └── (no separate README; see §8 above)
├── docker-compose.yml      # Redis, api, worker
├── Dockerfile
└── README.md               # This file
```

---

## Quick reference

| Task | Command / action |
|------|-------------------|
| Run client | `cd client && npm run dev` |
| Run server | `cd server && npm run dev` |
| Redis (Docker) | `docker compose up -d` |
| Deploy backend | `docker compose up --build -d` |
| Restart API + worker | `docker compose up -d --build api worker` |
| Job status | `GET /api/job/:jobId` |
| Health | `GET /health` → `{"status":"ok"}` |

All product behavior, trees, branches, and features are described in [§1 Features & tools](#1-features--tools-trees-and-branches). For env details use `server/.env.example` and the tables in [§3 Environment variables](#3-environment-variables).
